== Plots

Plugin for improving sail trim and maintaining course

=== Links

* Source: https://github.com/seandepagnier/plots_pi +
* Download: https://opencpn.org/OpenCPN/plugins/sweepplot.html +
* Forum:
http://www.cruisersforum.com/forums/f134/plots-plugin-201294.html[CF
Plots_pi Thread] +
* YouTube Sean: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHseBfjJNmE[Plots
Plugin]

Plots Plugin has been improved again, and provides Historical data in a
format useful for sailing, using a large selection of Data Types (Speed,
Course, Wind True & Apparent, etc). It is the best tool for showing
historical data in OpenCPN.

The plugin is designed to monitor speed and course to make the changes
to sail sweep obvious. It may be used to better understand the sailing
characteristics of a particular sailing vessel, or for fine tuning to
give optimal results.

For example, tightening a vang, adjusting the the traveler or the jib
may produce such a slight change that it is difficult to gauge the
result. This plugin can make gps speed feedback visible.

The predictor line allows setting the sample time for smoother
prediction than the builtin predictor. This is especially useful when
traveling relatively slowly in areas with large waves.

image::sweepplot_pi.jpeg[]

The top histogram is the Speed Screen which offers Speed, PDS10
(Position Determined Speed = 10 seconds) and PDS 60 (60 seconds.)

==== PDS

*Position Determined Speed* PDS finds the speed of the vessel by
comparing current position to the position from the past. For example
PDS10 (10 seconds) takes the position 10 seconds before and determines
the vessel speed by taking the distance from where it was then.

This method filters the data, giving a much steadier reading, but also
shows a comparison of useful speed traveled rather than the immediate
GPS speed. Consider autosteering that is over or under dampened, or the
case of large waves, even with an ideal autopilot. This will cause the
boat to not travel in a straight line, but in a S curve. The GPS speed
with read higher than the PDS position determined speed.

image::sweep-plot-speed-pds.jpeg[]


==== Configuration

While running the plugin right-click on the plugin screen to bring up
the Configuration Menu.

image::sweepplot-on-the-fly-menu.jpeg[]


While using the plugin you an right-click to change various settings on
the fly.

*Time Frame to Display* Select a time frame for the Display from 5
minutes to 60 days.

*Transparency* The value 1 is fully opaque. The value 100% is fully
transparent. Do not use this value, the plugin will be lost and the
Transparency setting can only be changed from the Sweepplot setting in
the opencpn.ini file. Look for

[source,code]
----
 [Settings/Plots]
   PlotTransparency=7
   
----

in order to reset the transparency to something that can be seen.

NOTE: Changes in Transparency value do not show until the PI Toolbar
button is toggled.

This is one of Sean's plugins.
