= oplaydo1 (Windows)

== Introduction

* In 'Fork and Build' we built the 'DR_pi' plugin.

* In Part 1 of this guide the 'DR_pi' plugin is renamed 'oplaydo1_pi'.
The xref:oplaydo1.adoc#_gimp_to_make_new_icons[icon is changed].
* In
xref:oplaydo1.ado#_part_2_edit_the_plugin_for_new_user_actions[Part 2]
the dialog is changed to allow the user to input 'Start' and 'Finish'
positions and generate a GPX file for displaying a route in OpenCPN.

== Part 1: Rename the plugin and make a new icon

=== Additional requirements

https://www.gimp.org/downloads/[GIMP] (Free & Open Source Image Editor)

http://strawberryperl.com/[Strawberry Perl]

http://nchrem.tnw.tudelft.nl/openvms/software2.html[png2wx.pl (Perl
Script)]

How these programs/script are used will be explained as the guide
progresses.

== Rename and rebuild

Before you start it is probably worth making a copy of the DR_pi
project.

image:dr_copy.png[dr_copy.png]

- Open the DR_pi project with Visual Studio.

- On the toolbar is a search and replace button. Use this firstly to
change every string 'DR_pi' to 'oplaydo1_pi'.

image:op_replace.png[op_replace.png]

- Repeat, changing the string 'DR' to 'oplaydo1'.

image:op_replace1.png[op_replace1.png]

- This can cause problems where the string is part of code but we will
resolve that later.

- If you look at 'CMakeLists.txt' you will find that the source file
names do not match those in 'Solution Explorer'. The search and replace
does not rename files.

image:op_source_files.png[op_source_files.png]

- Save the changes that have been made so far.

- Rename files. You will need to close Visual Studio first.

image:op_filenames.png[op_filenames.png]

- The folder 'DR_pi' has been renamed 'oplaydo1'.

image:op_folder.png[op_folder.png]

- The '.git' and 'ReadMe.cmd' have been removed and the folder 'build'
deleted.

- Re-build with CMake-GUI. This makes the 'oplaydo1_pi' solution.

The process is exactly the same as that used in 'Fork and Build'.

- CMake configure and generate. mswu, wxWidgets 3.0.2.

image:op_cmake.png[op_cmake.png]

- Copy 'opencpn.lib' from the 'build' folder of 'DR_pi' to the 'build'
folder of 'oplaydo1'.

- Open the 'oplaydo1.sln' file with Visual Studio.

- Build the solution.

image:op_build.png[op_build.png]

- All seems to have worked so the plugin is installed. However there is
a problem with the icons.

- The green jigsaw icon shows that something is not correct.

image:op_bad_icon.png[op_bad_icon.png]

- What has happened is that the search and replace has changed 'DR' to
'oplaydo1' in the file 'icons.cpp'. This has invalidated the code for
creating the icon. This is the sort of error that needs fixing when an
existing plugin is re-purposed. There could be many errors in the code
due to unwanted changes not related to the change in the name of the
plugin.

image:op_bad_icon_fix.png[op_bad_icon_fix.png]

- In this case the change is not needed so change 'oplaydo1' back to
'DR'.

image:op_bad_icon_code.png[op_bad_icon_code.png]

- Re-build the solution.

- Re-install the plugin. The icon is now restored to the 'cross'. This
will be changed to a new icon shortly.

image:op_icon_fixed.png[op_icon_fixed.png]

== Using GIMP to make new icons

- Use https://www.gimp.org/downloads/[GIMP] to create an image file
32Ã—32 px in size.

image:g_gimp_image1.png[g_gimp_image1.png]

- When you are satisfied with the image reduce the number of colours to
16.

image:g_convert_color_menu.png[g_convert_color_menu.png]

image:g_convert_color.png[g_convert_color.png]

- 'File/Export'. Export the image as a .png file and save in the root
folder of 'oplaydo1'.

image:g_export.png[g_export.png]

- Saving the file here is just for convenience. If the code files are
going to be pushed to GitHub some file removal will be needed later.

- The file exported is saved as 'oplaydo1_pi.png'. This is the image
that will appear in the list of plugins that can be enabled.

- Using GIMP the image is now changed to show a border. This will be the
image used for the toolbar. - Export this new image as 'oplaydo1.png',
also to the root folder of 'oplaydo1'.

image:g_playbat_folder.png[g_playbat_folder.png]

- Two extra files have appeared, 'icons.bat' and 'png2wx.pl'. These will
be explained in the next section.

== Using png2wx.pl

- The two icon images that were created must now be translated into a
form that can be used by wxWidgets.

- When 'Strawberry Perl' was installed an entry was made in the PATH
statement. This allows the Perl script to be run from the 'oplaydo1'
folder.

- Make a copy of 'png2wx.pl' in the root folder.

- Create a new plain text 'batch' file here called 'icons.bat'. This
file has only one line:

....
png2wx.pl -C icons.cpp -H icons.h -M ICONS_H oplaydo1.png oplaydo1_pi.png
....

image:g_perl_bat.png[g_perl_bat.png]

- The batch file is now run by a 'double-click' or 'Open'. This creates
two new files in the root folder called 'icons.cpp' and 'icons.h'.

image:g_run_bat.png[g_run_bat.png]

- In the 'src' folder there are already two files with the same name.
These contain the icons for 'DR_pi' and are being replaced. Re-name them
as '.bak' or similar, as a backup.

image:g_rename_icons.png[g_rename_icons.png]

- Move 'icons.cpp' and 'icons.h' to the 'src' folder.

- Using Visual Studio re-build the solution.

== Making a Package

- To simplify the installation of the plugin it is useful to make a
package.

- 'Right-click' on the folder 'PACKAGE' in 'Solution Explorer'. -
'Build/Build Only Package'.

image:g_build_package.png[g_build_package.png]

- This creates the installer in the folder 'NSIS'.

image:g_package.png[g_package.png]

- Run the installer. The installation script expects the plugins to be
in the folder 'plugins', below 'OpenCPN'. If the main folder of OpenCPN
has a different name, change it at the prompt. (HINT - put the cursor at
the end of the name, make a space and a list of OpenCPN versions
installed in parallel will appear. Choose the version of OpenCPN to use
for running 'oplaydo1')

image:g_install_plugin.png[g_install_plugin.png]

- Start OpenCPN. In the list of 'Options/Plugins' you should see the new
icon for 'oplaydo1'. The new icon with the border should appear in the
'Toolbar' of the program if 'oplaydo1' is enabled. Success!

image:g_new_icon_pi.png[g_new_icon_pi.png]

image:g_new_icon.png[g_new_icon.png]

- To summarise. The plugin has been renamed and the icons changed to
match the new project. At present the functionality in 'oplaydo1_pi' is
exactly the same as that in 'DR_pi'.

- In the next part the plugin is adapted for new functionality.

== Part 2: Edit the plugin for new user actions

=== Additional requirements

https://github.com/wxFormBuilder/wxFormBuilder/releases[wxFormBuilder] (
RAD tool for wxWidgets GUI design)

== Aim

- Make a new user interface and generate the code for this.

- Modify the plugin code to use the new interface

- Remove unwanted code

== User Interface

- Start a new project in wxFormBuilder. Edit the properties. The project
will be called 'oplaydo1'. - This is what you are aiming for:

image:f_dialog.png[f_dialog.png]

- An event called 'OnGenerate' has been added to the wxButton
'm_buttonGenerate'. When the plugin is used this button will generate
the GPX file, in a format that can be imported to OpenCPN.

image:f_ongenerate.png[f_ongenerate.png]

- In the project properties set 'file' as 'oplaydo1gui'

image:f_filename.png[f_filename.png]

- Set the path for generating the code files as
'c:\learning\oplaydo1_pi'. Files 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and 'oplayd1gui.h'
will be made in this folder.

image:f_path.png[f_path.png]

- Save the wxFormBuilder file as 'oplaydo1.fbp' in
'c:\learning\oplaydo1_pi'.

image:f_save_fb.png[f_save_fb.png]

- Generate the code

image:f_generate_code.png[f_generate_code.png]

- We have a problem.

image:f_generate_code_problem.png[f_generate_code_problem.png]

- Looking at the 'C++' page of wxFormBuilder the code has become
corrupt. Not shown here but the '.h"' appeared on a new line with'"'
printed in red.

image:f_generate_problem_solved.png[f_generate_problem_solved.png]

- By going back to the project properties and changing the file name
'oplaydo1gui' to another name and then back again to 'oplaydo1gui' the
error was fixed (A bug in wxFormBuilder - or my machine?)

- The code is now generated in the two files in
'c:\learning\oplaydo1_pi'.

== Modifying the code

- Make a backup of the files 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and 'oplayd1gui.h' in
'src' in case you need to refer to them. - Move 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and
'oplayd1gui.h' from 'oplaydo1_pi' to 'oplaydo1_pi\src'. - Open the
solution with Visual Studio

image:vs_errors1.png[vs_errors1.png]

- Only the main changes are going to be listed here. Compare
'DRgui_impl.cpp' and 'DRgui_impl.h' from the 'DR_pi' plugin with
'oplaydo1gui_impl.cpp' and 'oplayd1gui_impl.h' to see what has been
changed.

- The first error to be addressed is the name of the main dialog class.
It has to be changed from 'DlgDef' to 'm_dialog', which was the name
given to the dialog in wxFormBuilder.

- In 'oplaydo1gui_impl.h' change 'DlgDef' to 'm_dialog'.

- Try to avoid any changes to 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and 'oplayd1gui.h' or
someone using the wxFormBuilder file in the future could have a problem.

image:vs_ref_m_dialog.png[vs_ref_m_dialog.png]

- The command event 'OnGenerate' has to be linked to a function in
'oplaydo1gui_impl.h'.

image:vs_ongenerate_virtual.png[vs_ongenerate_virtual.png]

- The function that has the code we want for generating a GPX file is
called 'Calculate'. Change 'Calculate' to 'OnGenerate'.

- In 'oplaydo1gui_impl.cpp' find the function 'Calculate' and rename it
as 'OnGenerate'.

- The functions 'OnPSGPX' is not needed. Parts of 'OpenXML' may be
useful. Either delete functions/code or comment out.

- 'Preferences' is not going to be used so 'CfgDlg' references are
removed.

- All the changes are not going to be listed. Source code files can be
downloaded link:{attachmentsdir}/oplaydo1_code.zip[here].

- After removing all the errors and building/installing the plugin the
new dialog is shown.

image:o_output.png[o_output.png]

- Enter the Start and Finish positions and press the 'Generate' button.
Errors in input values will result in an error message.

- If there are no errors the 'Save File' dialog will appear and you can
enter a name (no extension) for the GPX file. If you add .gpx to the
file name you will find the name ends in .gpx.gpx when saved.

image:o_save_file.png[o_save_file.png]

- Test the GPX file by importing using the OpenCPN Route Manager

image:o_import_gpx.png[o_import_gpx.png]

- The final route will appear on the chart

image:o_route.png[o_route.png]
