
= oplaydo1 (Linux)

- In 'Fork and Build' we built the 'DR_pi' plugin.

- In Part 1 of this guide the 'DR_pi' plugin is renamed 'oplaydo1_pi'.
The xref:oplaydo1#using_gimp_to_make_new_icons[icon is changed].

- In
xref:oplaydo1#_part_2edit_the_plugin_for_new_user_actions[Part 2]
the dialog is changed to allow the user to input 'Start' and 'Finish'
positions and generate a GPX file for displaying a route in OpenCPN. -
In 'Fork and Build' we made the 'DR_pi' plugin.

== Part 1: Rename the plugin and make a new icon

=== Additional requirements

GIMP (Free & Open Source Image Editor). Install this using the 'Ubuntu
Software Centre' (Search for GIMP)

Perl (Check it is installed by using the 'Ubuntu Software Centre'

http://nchrem.tnw.tudelft.nl/openvms/software2.html[png2wx.pl (Perl
Script)]

How these programs/script are used will be explained as the guide
progresses.

== Rename and rebuild

- In 'Fork and Build' we made the 'DR_pi' plugin.

- In this section 'DR_pi' is edited and a new plugin 'oplaydo1_pi' is
made from 'DR_pi'.

- Before starting it may be worth making a copy of 'DR_pi'.

image:make_copy.png[make_copy.png]

- We use CodeBlocks as the editor.

- Open the 'DR_pi.cbp' CodeBlock project with 'CodeBlocks'.

- Replace 'DR_pi' with 'oplaydo1_pi'.

image:cb_replace.png[cb_replace.png]

- Open the file 'CMakeList.txt' file in 'DR_pi' and edit the file names.
Change 'DRgui' to 'oplaydo1gui'.

- Change all the 'DR' to 'oplaydo1'.

image:cmakelists_edit.png[cmakelists_edit.png]

- Save your work.

- The old 'DR_pi' folder is renamed 'oplaydo1_pi'.

image:folder_rename.png[folder_rename.png]

- In the 'oplaydo_pi' folder rename files, changing the
'DRgui..filename' to 'oplaydo1gui..filename'.

- The files 'NavFunc.cpp' and 'NavFunc.h' can be removed because these
functions will not be used.

image:rename_remove_navfunc.png[rename_remove_navfunc.png]

- Delete the 'old' 'build' folder. Make a new 'build' folder for the
project.

- Make a new 'CodeBlocks' project called 'oplaydo1_pi' using 'Terminal'.

image:cmake_codeblocks.png[cmake_codeblocks.png]

image:cmake_works.png[cmake_works.png]

- Using 'CodeBlocks' open the new project 'oplaydo1_pi.cbp'.

- Build the new project.

- Some errors will occur, where 'DR' needs to be changed to 'oplaydo1'.

- The reference to the include file 'NavFunc.h' is removed, as that file
has been deleted. This will have caused other problems due to missing
functions and where a function is no longer available it is commented
out.

image:cb_builds.png[cb_builds.png]

- In the 'build' folder: 'sudo make install', 'sudo make package', using
'Terminal'.

image:make_package.png[make_package.png]

- This creates a '.deb' package which can be opened with the 'Ubuntu
Software Centre'.

image:make_package_files.png[make_package_files.png]

- Using the 'Ubuntu Software Centre' 'oplaydo_pi' can be installed, in
the same way as 'DR_pi'.

- On the first install the plugin was still named 'DR_pi' not
'oplaydo1_pi'. There is code in 'oplaydo1_pi.cpp' that needs editing
with CodeBlocks. Change 'DR' to 'oplaydo1'. '_img_DR' was changed to
'_img_oplaydo1' in 'oplaydo1_pi.cpp' and in 'icons.cpp' and 'icons.h'.

- Then 'build' again, followed by 'sudo make install', 'sudo make
package', using 'Terminal'.

- The icon has not yet been changed, or any of the code to customise our
new plugin.

image:oplaydo_b4_changes.png[oplaydo_b4_changes.png]

== Using GIMP to make new icons

- Using http://shutter-project.org/downloads/[Shutter] a screenshot was
made from the 'DR_pi' icons as a starting point for the new icons.

- The '.png' files were then opened in Gimp. - Size of the images was
adjusted to 32×32 and the 'Mode' was set as 'indexed' with 16 colours.

- The images were then *exported* as new '.png' files and saved in the
'/learning/oplaydo1_pi' folder, as 'oplaydo1.png' and 'oplaydo1_pi.png'.

image:gimp_workspace.png[gimp_workspace.png]

image:gimp_saved.png[gimp_saved.png]

== Using png2wx.pl

- The two icon images that were created must now be translated into a
form that can be used by wxWidgets.

- Using 'Ubuntu Software Centre' check that 'Perl' has been installed on
your machine.

- Download the script 'png2wx.pl' from
http://nchrem.tnw.tudelft.nl/openvms/software2.html[here]. Place the
script in the 'oplaydo1_pi' root folder.

- Using 'Terminal' navigate to 'learning/oplaydo1_pi'. Type the
following command line.

....
perl png2wx.pl -C icons.cpp -H icons.h -M ICONS_H oplaydo1.png oplaydo1_pi.png
....

- Two files, 'icons.cpp' and 'icons.h' are created in the root folder.

- Copy these files to the 'learning/oplaydo1_pi/src' folder. They will
replace the existing files and provide the new icons for 'oplaydo1_pi'.

- Using 'CodeBlocks' open the 'oplaydo1_pi' project.

- Build the project again.

- Using 'Terminal' cd to the 'build' folder. 'sudo make install', 'sudo
make package'.

- The '.deb' package made can be opened with the 'Ubuntu Software
Centre' and reinstalled.

image:open_icon_changed.png[open_icon_changed.png]

- To summarise. The plugin has been renamed and the icons changed to
match the new project. At present the functionality in 'oplaydo1_pi' is
nearly the same as that in 'DR_pi'.

- In the Part 2 the plugin is given new functionality.

== Part 2: Edit the plugin for new user actions

=== Additional requirements

- Using the 'Ubuntu Software Centre' install
'http://github.com/wxFormBuilder/wxFormBuilder/releases[wxFormBuilder]'.
( RAD tool for wxWidgets GUI design)

=== Aim

- Make a new user interface and generate the code for this.

- Modify the plugin code to use the new interface

- Remove unwanted code

=== User Interface

- To save time the 'oplaydo1.fbp' wxFormBuilder project file was copied
from the Windows machine.

- *Problem* 'Ubuntu Software Centre' had installed a copy of
wxFormBuilder that did not open the '.fbp'. Although the wxFormBuilder
source etc has moved to GitHub, SourceForge still has some useful
information. Following these instructions wxFormBuilder was updated,
even though my Linux machine is using 'Ubuntu 14.04 - Trusty'.

image:wxfb_update.png[wxfb_update.png]

- The 'oplaydo1.fbp' file could now be opened.

- Alternatively start a new project in wxFormBuilder. Edit the
properties. The project will be called 'oplaydo1'.

- This is what you are aiming for:

image:f_dialog.png[f_dialog.png]

- The textboxes (textCtrl) have been given names that indicate their
use.

- An event called 'OnGenerate' has been added to the wxButton
'm_buttonGenerate'. When the plugin is used this button will generate
the GPX file. The format can be imported into OpenCPN.

image:f_ongenerate.png[f_ongenerate.png]

- In the project properties set 'file' as 'oplaydo1gui'. The path in my
case is 'home/mike/learning/oplaydo1_pi'.

image:f_filename.png[f_filename.png]

- When you are satisfied with the design use 'File/Generate Code' (or
F8) to make two files in the root folder, 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and
'oplaydo1gui.h'.

=== Modifying the code

- Make a backup of the files 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and 'oplayd1gui.h' in
'src' in case you need to refer to them.

- Move 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and 'oplayd1gui.h' from 'oplaydo1_pi' to
'oplaydo1_pi/src'.

- Open the 'oplaydo1_pi' project with 'CodeBlocks'.

- 'DlgDef' needs changing to 'm_dialog', which was the class
wxFormBuilder used for the dialog.

- 'DlgCfgDef' sections are removed. We will not be using 'preferences'
for the plugin.

- In 'oplaydo1gui_impl.h' change 'DlgDef' to 'm_dialog'.

- Try to avoid any changes to 'oplaydo1gui.cpp' and 'oplayd1gui.h'. This
would create differences with the source wxFormBuilder file.

- The command event 'OnGenerate' has to be linked to a function in
'oplaydo1gui_impl.h'.

image:cb_ongenerate.png[cb_ongenerate.png]

- The function that has the code we want for generating a GPX file is
originally called 'Calculate'. Change 'Calculate' to 'OnGenerate'.

- In 'oplaydo1gui_impl.cpp' find the function 'Calculate' and rename it
to 'OnGenerate'.

- The functions 'OnPSGPX' is not needed. Parts of 'OpenXML' may be
useful. Either delete functions/code or comment out.

- 'Preferences' is not going to be used so 'CfgDlg' references are
removed.

- All the changes are not going to be listed. Source code files can be
downloaded link:{attachmentsdir}/oplaydo1_code.zip[here].

- 'std:abs' causes an error on Linux, which is found by CodeBlocks. Use
'fabs' instead.

- **Problem …**After 'sudo make install', 'sudo make package' and
installing the '.deb' package no icons could be seen in OpenCPN.

- **Remedy …**One of the '.png' icon images still used 256 colours.
Using GIMP this was 'mode/indexed' to 16. The png2wx.pl script was rerun
and the two files 'icons.cpp' and 'icons.h' copied to the 'src' folder.
The project was rebuilt in CodeBlocks.

- 'sudo make install', 'sudo make package'. Reinstall the '.deb'
package.

- After removing all the errors and building/installing the plugin the
new dialog form is shown and tested.

image:test_oplaydo1.png[test_oplaydo1.png]
