== Great Circle Sailing

Very few cruising boats need to use Great Circles, but it's certainly an important consideration for commercial vessels across the North Atlantic and North Pacific.

The advantage of a great circle is obvious, the shorter distance. The disadvantages, depending on latitude, could be quite a few. Colder weather, stronger winds, higher seas and perhaps even icebergs. The great circle is just one factor in the decision making, when planning a route, the weather is likely to be the deciding factor in most cases.

OpenCPN has a builtin Great Circle tool as well as a Great Circle plugin.

*The built in Great Circle tool.*

The “Measure” tool in the right-click menu and the “Create Route” button
on the ToolBar switches seamlessly to a great circle mode when asked to
do long distance tasks. This mainly happens when using these tools in
some east-west direction and far away from the equator. The mode kicks
in when the difference between the normal, rhumb line and the great
circle becomes larger than two nautical miles. This will be some 0.2% to
0.5% of the total distance, depending on latitude and direction. When
this happens a clear curve towards the pole will appear.

image::pencil.png[] 

The Measure Tool

image::gc7.png[]

Testing the measure tool for Manila to San Francisco (approximately).
For a good illustration to Great circles, find a second point that is
opposite the first, on the other side of the globe, and just move around
slightly.

image::gc6.png[]

Once the first leg in measuring is done, it's plotted as a rhumb-line,
to keep things simple. The active leg is still displayed as a great
circle, if long enough. The distance displayed is the combined great
circle distances.

image::route.png[image,width=32,height=32] The “Create
Route” Tool

image::gc1.png[]

If you answer no to the above question, OpenCPN will use a traditional
rhumb line for the leg. Answering yes, will kick the great circle option
into action and a number of intermediate waypoints will be created.
There will be at least 3 waypoints. The exact number of waypoints is
calculated by OpenCPN and is appropriate for most cases.

image::gc4.png[]

The created route is now available in the RouteManager dialog, as a
normal route.

image::gc8.png[]

As a real example let us look at a route from Mossel Baai, South Africa,
to the western entrance to Investigator Strait, South Australia. The
rhumb line is 5660 nautilcal miles, and the great circle, as
approximated by the created route is 5249 miles. The “real” great circle
is some 15 miles shorter.

image::gc3.png[]

*Composite Saling*

image::composite.png[]

Composite sailing is a great circle sailing with a maximum allowed
latitude. OpenCPN has no such built-in option, but it's easy to create.

Above is the same route as before designed for composite sailing, not
going further south than 45° S latitude. Start a route at Mossel Baai
extend it until 45° S becomes a tangent to the visible great circle. End
the route.

image::composite1.png[]

Do the same thing, starting with the destination and going backwards.
Create a rhumb line route, using the two points along 45° S. The three
routes together form the composite route. The total distance of the
composite route is 5293 Nautical Miles.

=== Route Plugin

“Salty Paws” route plugin handles much more than great circles,
introduced here.

image::route_plugin.png[]

The plugin has a few features not present in the built-in tool. It can
calculate a composite route, and the distance between the waypoints can
be set by the user. The end result, however, is a “gpx” file that is
exported, and then imported into OpenCPN via the Route Manager.

image::gc-comp.png[]

A great circle from Cook Strait to Cape Horn limited by 60° S
