== otidalplan

image:0.png[]

== Aim

Estimate positions along a route and final ETA using data from tidal
current harmonics.

== References

== Requirements

`OpenCPN 5.2.4 and above. For the initial download an Internet connection is needed. The plugin tarball can be downloaded and imported to OpenCPN.`

== 1. What the plugin does

Set and rate of the tidal current from tidal current harmonics is used
to calculate EP positions along a route and a final ETA. Courses to
steer and speeds made good are available. Starting at different times
the ETA for these departure times can be compared. This takes into
account the different tidal currents likely to be experienced.

== 2. Install

The plugin is available in the Beta catalog of the plugin manager. After
installation the otidalplan plugin is added to the list and can be
enabled.

In the list of available plugins:

image:1.png[]

image:2.png[]

image:3.png[]

Ready to use:

image:4.png[]

And in the toolbar:

image:5.png[]

Showing the plugin dialog: 

image:6.png[]

== Basic method

[arabic]
. Attach the tidal current stations for the planned route. This is based
on DR positions and the maximum distance from the station.

image:7.png[]

image:8.png[]

[arabic, start=2]
. Enter the name for the route containing the EP. Tick the box to show
the calculated route.
. Calculate the ETA. This creates a new route containing the EP
positions.

image:9.png[]

image:10.png[]

image:11.png[]

=== Information Available

== Summary

Available from the menu:

image:12.png[]

image:13.png[]

== Route Table

image:14.png[]

image:15.png[]

image:16.png[]

== Options

=== GPX file

A GPX file of the EP route can be created at the same time as the new
route is calculated. Tick the box to allow this.

image:17.png[]

The GPX can be imported into OpenCPN using the Route and Mark Manager

image:18.png[]

image:19.png[]

=== Tidal current harmonics

The harmonics installed with OpenCPN may not cover the area you are
navigating. Another set of harmonics can be used by selecting the folder
containing HARMONIC.idx.

image:20.png[]

=== Adjust accuracy

The tidal current stations associated with a route are used based on DR
and maximum distance from that DR. By adjusting these two parameters
greater accuracy may be achieved.

image:21.png[]

=== Use different departure times

image:22.png[]

The Summary table from the menu shows the effect of using different
departure times:

image:24.png[]

Route with EP positions can be charted from the list of routes:

image:23.png[]

==== Welcome to the otidalplan_pi wiki!

image:0.png[]

=== Aim

Estimate positions along a route and final ETA using data from tidal
current harmonics.

=== References

=== Requirements

`OpenCPN 5.2.4 and above. For the initial download an Internet connection is needed. The plugin tarball can be downloaded and imported to OpenCPN.`

=== 1. What the plugin does

Set and rate of the tidal current from tidal current harmonics is used
to calculate EP positions along a route and a final ETA. Courses to
steer and speeds made good are available. Starting at different times
the ETA for these departure times can be compared. This takes into
account the different tidal currents likely to be experienced.

[[2-install-1]]
=== 2. Install

The plugin is available in the Beta catalog of the plugin manager. After
installation the otidalplan plugin is added to the list and can be
enabled.

In the list of available plugins:

image:1.png[]

image:2.png[]

image:3.png[]

Ready to use:

image:4.png[]

And in the toolbar:

image:5.png[]

Showing the plugin dialog: [[/images/6.png[]

=== Basic method

[arabic]
. Attach the tidal current stations for the planned route. This is based
on DR positions and the maximum distance from the station.

image:7.png[]

image:8.png[]

[arabic, start=2]
. Enter the name for the route containing the EP. Tick the box to show
the calculated route.
. Calculate the ETA. This creates a new route containing the EP
positions.

image:9.png[]

image:10.png[]

image:11.png[]

==== Information Available

=== Summary

Available from the menu:

image:12.png[]

image:13.png[]

=== Route Table

image:14.png[]

image:15.png[]

image:16.png[]

== Options

=== GPX file

A GPX file of the EP route can be created at the same time as the new
route is calculated. Tick the box to allow this.

image:17.png[]

The GPX can be imported into OpenCPN using the Route and Mark Manager

image:18.png[]

image:19.png[]

=== Tidal current harmonics

The harmonics installed with OpenCPN may not cover the area you are
navigating. Another set of harmonics can be used by selecting the folder
containing HARMONIC.idx.

image:20.png[]

=== Adjust accuracy

The tidal current stations associated with a route are used based on DR
and maximum distance from that DR. By adjusting these two parameters
greater accuracy may be achieved.

image:21.png[]

=== Use different departure times

image:22.png[]

The Summary table from the menu shows the effect of using different
departure times:

image:24.png[]

Route with EP positions can be charted from the list of routes:

image:23.png[]
