:imagesdir: ../images/
== Why doesn’t the plugin support Furuno / Raymarine / Garmin Fantom ….

Well, simply because no owner of such a radar bothered to implement it.

In our experience, to implement a new radar you need to have three items
at the the same time and place:

[arabic]
. A radar of the desired type _with the means to control it_ such as a
chart-plotter.
. A software developer with at least some C++ skills. They don’t need to
be huge, as long as (s)he has the willingness to learn.
. Lots of time to test, learn, adapt, recycle of #2.

We did the first implementation for the Navico Halo (very similar to the
4G) without the radar immediately available, with someone very helpful
and responsive. But still, it is a slow and difficult process, also for
the tester with the radar. He is loading version after version,
returning log files and wireshark files time after time. As a developer
you have a turnaround time of hours or days, instead of minutes for a
single test. And remember that we are not programming from a
specification, there is a lot of trial and error to specify the
interface with the radar on the fly.

== How do I go about this then?

Well, if you’ve done any software development in the last 15 years, you
should be able to contribute. We’re here to help you with tips and
support.

Once you’ve got the hardware running with a computer running OpenCPN,
you will start by analysing the commands that your chartplotter produces
and the data that comes from your radar. Luckily, all radars seem to
send out spokes in the same sort of format, unencrypted and
un-authenticated. To do the analysis you will need tools such as
`tcpdump` and `wireshark`. Focus on simple things first: starting
transmission, stopping transmission. Receiving spoke data.

Once you’ve got some idea what data goes back and forth, clone the
radar_pi project and add files for your own radar type. It’s probably
easiest to assess which existing radar looks the most like yours in
terms of functionality, and then copy the files for that radar and
modify them to your radar. In principle you only need to implement the
actual sending of commands and the actual reception of radar data, and
even those you don’t need to start from scratch but can probably copy an
existing one. You will also need to extend the list of radars and the
type of commands it supports, again see how this is done for existing
radars.

You do not need to code the difficult bits, such as programming the PPI
displays, overlay, menu entries, menu boxes, guard zones, target trails,
etc. This is all generic code that you will just get for `free'.

Once you’ve started you should start sending us pull requests so that we
can share your work with others with the same radar.

xref:Home.adoc[Back to overview Plugin radar_pi]