== oTidalRoute

oTidalRoute uses tidal current GRIB files to generate Estimated
Positions (EP) along a planned route.

=== Links

* Source: https://github.com/Rasbats/otidalroute_pi[Github Repository]
* Releases:
https://github.com/Rasbats/otidalroute_pi/releases/tag/v0.1_alpha[Github
Releases]
* Forum:
http://www.cruisersforum.com/forums/f134/current-informed-routing-plugin-199079.html[oTidalRoute
Plugin Thread]

=== Aim

To select the optimum time for starting a route, taking into account
tidal currents.

=== Requirements

[source,code]
----
OpenCPN 4.2.0 and above.
----

=== 1. What and Why

Calculate routes showing estimated positions along a route in areas
affected by tidal currents. Select the optimum departure time for the
route.

=== 2. Install

Download the plugin installer and run the installer .exe file from here
(Windows):

https://github.com/Rasbats/otidalroute_pi/releases

Tidal current GRIB files can be downloaded from a number of websites.
For a site with easy access try:

http://www.sailingweatheronline.com/currents.html[www.sailingweatheronline.com]

=== 3. Standard actions

Open the toolbox and enable 'oTidalRoute'.

image:0.png[]

Apply/Ok and on the toolbar you will find the oTidalRoute icon.

image:01.png[]

Because you need tidal current GRIB files it is probably better to start
the Grib plugin at this stage.

image:02.png[]

If the icon is not shown on the toolbar enable it using Options→Plugins
and then start the Grib plugin.

image:1.png[]

Start the oTidalRoute plugin.

image:5a.png[]

All the tools needed are now in place. Draw the proposed route on the
chart.

image:2a.png[]

Make sure that the route passes through areas of the GRIB where current
values are available. This means the route must fall within squares of
the GRIB where there is a data point at each corner. If the cursor is
moved into areas with only 3 data points the current direction/speed in
the Grib plugin will show 'N/A'.

An example of where the example route had to be adjusted is here:

image:2c.png[]

If the route had been closer to 'Gregory Rocks' it would not have passed
through a 'square' of data points and the current data would not have
been available.

The plugin needs a GPX file of the route to work with. Give the route a
name and export it as a GPX file to a location where you can easily find
it.

Returning to the oTidalRoute dialog enter the planned speed for the
route. The departure time is entered by selecting a time from the Grib
plugin. The tidal current data for that time covers a period from 30
minutes before to 30 minutes after the time shown in the Grib plugin.
For this reason the departure time appearing in oTidalRoute will be 30
minutes before the Grib plugin time.

Enter the name for the output route, which will have the estimated
positions (EP).

If you want a GPX file for the EP route tick the box. The route can be
charted from the plugin so there is often no need for this file.

In order to produce a comparison of different departure times the number
of these can be set with the drop-down. Initially set this as '1' to
check the plugin works. The plugin dialog will then look like this:

image:5.png[]

Press 'Calculate EP'!

A selection box opens to allow you to select the route GPX file you
saved earlier.

image:5a.1.png[]

If you have decided to save a GPX file of the route with EPs a further
selection dialog opens for the output file.

image:5a.2.png[]

The calculation may fail.

image:5b.png[]

If this happens even if the route looks compatible with the GRIB try
making a simple test route well away from land. If the plugin has worked
you will get this message:

image:5c.png[]

For a summary of the EP route select the menu option Routes→Summary.

image:6.png[]
image:7.png[]

For a table showing distances/courses to steer/tidal current for each
leg use Routes→Route Tables.

image:7a.png[]

Select the route and press 'Route Table'.

image:9.png[]

If the route needs to be plotted on the chart press 'Chart Route'.

image:10.png[]

For choosing the optimum departure time use the drop-down to choose the
number of departures. Then 'Calculate EP'. You will need to choose a new
name for the route or delete the existing route.

After the calculation the summary shows each of the routes and the
estimated time for each. The distance varies slightly due to rounding
errors in the calculation.

image:11.png[]

=== 4. Options / Warnings / Ideas

Biggest issue is getting the route to run through areas where there is
GRIB data.

==== Options

The menu offers other options, including a short instruction guide.
