:imagesdir: ../images/

== Admiralty Tides

Admiralty Tide Tables

== Plugin Datasheet Template

=== Aim

Form or repository for Admiralty Tide information. Intent is simply to
store it in an useful form in OpenCPN.

=== Links

* Source: https://github.com/registry/admiralty_tide_tables_pi[Github
Repository]
* Forum:
http://www.cruisersforum.com/forums/f134/a-t-t-calculation-plugin-for-reeds-almanac-and-admiralty-tide-tables-168254.html[A.T.T.
calculation plugin for REEDS almanac and Admiralty Tide Tables]
* Explanation: http://www.siranah.de/html/sail030d.htm[Admiralty Tide
Tables Explanation]

=== Requirements

??

=== Documentation

*Please make a User Guide. More information is given
link:../plugin_documentation.html[here.]*

== User Guide

=== 1. What and Why

Easy work with A.T.Tables, published in REEDS or in Tide Tables, i've
created small OpenCPN plugin. It allows to calculate tides on secondary
ports having data from standard ports and differences of secondary ports
how it is suppose to be done manually on paper. dea is simple: I want to
simplify tedious part of tide calculation based on A.T.T. → calculation
itself.

Having REEDS for a given year, I do actually have most up-to-date
calculation for most of ports and marinas, covered by the almanac.
Problem is only the calculation.

So far I can easily type-in the data for some standard port and
differences for secondary port of interest, press “calculate” and get my
tide for secondary port at given date. Agreed, further work on this tide
(tide at given time, time or required depth and and and) has to be done
manually, but for the beginning it is already something if one has tide
for secondary ports.

Input form of the plugin has a form and acronyms like it is in A.T.T or
Reeds for simplicity.

For further ideas would be collecting calculated data in some
offline/online data base so that one has to type in tides and
differences only once… but it is not done yet.

This calculated/typed-in data could be shared via … some file in same
git repository or via some online database - don't know what is better.

If some one wants to contribute → you are welcome. If plugin gets
published on opencpn page/plugins → nice. if someone wants to take over
its maintenance and further development (without removing essential part
→ working with Reeds/A.T.T ) → great (i don't have much time to invest
into it) Feature requests/comments/improvements suggestions i will read,
but do not promise to react on them immediately ( i don't have much time
to invest into it)… only if they will be useful for my own usage while
sailing… sorry for that.

Update

{empty}1. Added IO. 2. Input once. Now one has to input data for
standard or secondary ports only once, save it and it gets loaded by
next start of opencpn automatically. 3. Format of files is not stable
yet. I have to make a round of field tests wheather it is usable and
check calculation. 4. rgleason tests it on win as standalone build (i
use linux and build within opencpn build system) 5. Any another tests
(on another systems/configurations) are welcome.

Small road map: 1. Polish UX and behavior of all form elements 2.
Improve io format. 3. Connect Standard and secondary ports. (issue:
A.T.T. lists numbers of ports, REEDS - no.. ).

Further ideas (which i might or might not do): 1. Add some kind of
exchange data of stored ports with community to make it downloadable .
In this wey data base of tide data from A.T.T. and REEDS will grow much
faster and gets available for more people. 2. Add support for tide curve
for standard port, so one can do such thing like “at which time one has
enough water depth to pass a barrier” or similar. 3. …

=== 2. Install


image:admiralty-table.jpeg[]


image:admiraltytidestable.jpeg[]


=== 3. Standard actions

=== 4. Options

=== 5. FAQ
