
== EarthExplorer

New legacy plugin to drive Google Earth (GE).

image::plugin_icon.png[]

image::plugin_view.jpg[]

In addition to driving a simulated vessel across the chart of OpenCPN
the vessel can be displayed on Google Earth. The plugin controls the GE
camera position. The autopilot can be used. A sample GPX is included.
This is a route through the new locks at the southern end of the Panama
Canal. The default model to drive is a panamax container ship.

*Plugin Install*

Install the plugin in the normal way for a legacy plugin.

*Extra requirements*

At the moment the Google Chrome Web Server extension is used to serve
the KML files used by GE. Chrome is cross-platform and can be used on
MacOSX, Linux and Windows.

* Install Google Chrome (if not already installed)
* Start Chrome
* Add the webserver extension
* Start the webserver. After this the Chrome Browser can be shut down.
It does not have to be the default browser

On first starting to drive with EarthExplorer the files to link with GE
are copied to the GetpPrivateApplicationDataLocation() directory. On
Windows this will be similar to **C:_pi* . On Linux it will be like
*home/.opencpn/plugins/EarthExplorer_pi/data*.

If not already installed download and install Google Earth Pro:
https://www.google.com/earth/download/gep/agree.html

Not sure if the version available from Paul Higgins is compatible.

== Setting up

*Start the Chrome Web Server*

It displays with a button to choose the default folder. Select the
GetpPrivateApplicationDataLocation() folder mentioned above.

*Start OpenCPN*

Start your OpenCPN and enable EarthExplorer. Start the plugin to test
the drive function is working. Very similar to ShipDriver (!!!). Testing
will have created a `placemark.kml' file in the
GetpPrivateApplicationDataLocation() folder along with the model file
`container.dae'. Another file is also copied there â€¦ `link.kml'. This
provides the network link with GE.

*Start Google Earth*

*File->Open* and select `placemark.kml' from the same folder as you set
up in the Chrome webserver. * GE should fly to the location of your
vessel. You should see the model in the centre of the GE display. * A
place called `model' will have been added to GE `Temporary Places'.

*File->Open* and select `link.kml'. This will add a place `Earth
Explorer' to `Temporary Places'. One of the contents of this place is
`model'.

Start driving the vessel in OpenCPN. You should see the model moving
across the screen. If you can still see the model that was dropped when
you opened `placemark.kml' you can de-select and delete that place, as
it is no longer needed.

Select the `3D Buildings' layer in GE if you want to see models. These
show the bridges at the southern end of the Panama Canal.

Press `Camera' if you want to zoom in or pan/tilt the display in GE.

Using Options->Ship the `Ship icon type' can be changed to `real scale
vector'. A panamax container ship has length 292m, beam 30m. GPS is
approx 270m from the bow and midships.

=== Closing Google Earth

*Important*. Do not save the temporary places when you close GE. You
need to repeat the startup procedure listed above when you open GE
again.

== Enjoy your toy

Many bugs remain. Pleae PM me if you see anything that needs fixing.

If you have other GPX files for interesting pilotages or other ship
models please PM me.

https://www.cruisersforum.com/forums/showthread.php?p=3304453#post3304453[Announcement
on the Cruisers Forum]
